<script setup>
import CodeBlock from '/docs/components/CodeBlock.vue'
</script>

# JWT with Amazon Cognito

We use Amazon Cognito as our Identity Provider `IdP`.  An IdP is a service that holds and authenticates you via your username and password. Or in the case of a Single-Sign-On `SSO`, your information (`ID`) ðŸªª is simply `federated` from your corporate system to Cognito to our System, without us ever accessing sensitive data.  

We use Cognito to keep your credentials as secure ðŸ” as possible.  Our system never "touches" ðŸ‘ˆ or "sees" ðŸ‘€ your password.  We do know your username (email address) and a cognito-generated `ID`, which is how we link your account to analysis executions, files, etc.  

During your onboarding process, you should have received a username and password which was generated by Amazon Cognito.  Those two values along with a `Client Id` will allow you programmatic access to the Aplos NCA Analysis SaaS system.  

> [!TIP]
> Don't worry, you can't do anything bad, and everything you do is locked to your user identity, your tenancy and your account.


## SSO Single-Sign-On Support
As mentioned in the intro, Cognito can be integrated with your federated `IdP` Single-Sign-On `SSO`.  If you require `SSO` please reach out to our support team.  

> [!NOTE]
> Using SSO will require an a team or enterprise account and some lead time for set up.  You can always start without SSO and upgrade later.


## Obtaining a JWT

JWTs can be obtained via using standard username/password flow (`ALLOW_USER_PASSWORD_AUTH`),  Secure Remote Password flow (`ALLOW_USER_SRP_AUTH`) or via a `client id` and `client secret` which is typically used for automated solutions.

Whichever method you use it's important to keep these values confidential.

## Connecting to Amazon Cognito

No matter what tool you use (Java, Python, c#, R, Ruby, PHP, curl, etc), connections to Amazon Cognito are essentially HTTPS calls.

To keep it simple here is an example using `curl` in shell command.  If you're not used to using shell commands or `curl`, that's ok. We'll try to make it as straightforward as possible and explain it along the way.

We also have examples using Python, R and SAS.
<!-- ToDo add the links to the examples for each language we have samples for -->

When you look at the following script, notice there are only three values that you need to provide, for the rest of the script you can use "as-is".

|Name|Value|Description|
|--|--|--|
|COGNITO_USER_NAME|Your username| your email address |
|COGNITO_PASSWORD|Your password |provided during onboarding  |
|COGNITO_CLIENT_ID|Your cognito client id |Available in your profile settings|

> [!TIP]
> `curl` is a shell command that allows you to make web (http/https) requests in the command line.  It's simple and easy to use.
>
> In the example below, the `payload` refers to the body of an HTTPS request. It is included in the `body/data` of the web request, which ensures that it is transmitted securely and encrypted. The request uses `HTTPS` which automatically handles the encryption and decryption of data, similar to how your browser secures data when you're online.
>
> The `header` information required here, is supplied by AWS and you can find more detail in their documentation.
>
> The `flow` of this process extracts environment variables into local variables called: `username`, `password` and `client_id` and then adds them to the payload and makes a `curl` https request to get retrieve your token.  The outputs it into your shell.

## Shell Script Example
<CodeBlock src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AplosAnalytics/docs.aplosanalytics.com/develop/docs/samples/shell/login/amazon-cognito-jwt.sh" lang="shell"></CodeBlock>


Given the code above you and if you saved it in a file named `amazon-cognito-jwt.sh`, you can execute the following:



<CodeBlock src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AplosAnalytics/docs.aplosanalytics.com/develop/docs/samples/shell/login/login_example.sh" lang="shell"></CodeBlock>

## The Response
The output won't be as clean as the output below, but you'll get back something like the following:

> [!NOTE]
> **This was a real response from a temp account I created.  I removed the RefreshToken for safety as it's a long-lived token.  We're serious about security so that account has also been disabled and is scheduled for destruction.**
<CodeBlock src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AplosAnalytics/docs.aplosanalytics.com/develop/docs/samples/jwt/cognito-response-payload.json" lang="shell"></CodeBlock>


## Next Steps
Now that you have a token, you can make calls to the Aplos NCA SaaS system.  This is of course assuming your account is valid âœ…, your subscription is active ðŸŽ‰ and finally, you have the correct permissions ðŸ”“ (whew) ðŸ¥µ : you can make calls against our APIs ðŸš€.